hi everyone it's Simon keeling here at
whether we've done it thanks again for
watching on Monday the 16th of December
I'm getting closer and closer to the big
day now nine days to go and this is the
70 1010 mean of the 500 millibar flow we
got the ECMWF on the left here the gfs
on the right the regular viewers amongst
you will know what this is showing its
basically showing the anomalies from the
normal heights of 500 millibars for the
next seven to ten days running from at
next monday through to boxing day
through to thursday the 26 and it's good
to get a comparison between both models
and remarkable agreement between both
models actually on this one look at that
jet stream who finger across the
Atlantic on both you seem to riff and on
the GFS screaming through the British
Isles which basically just says look
folks it's going to be stormy and we're
going to be seeing some rain we're going
to be seeing some strong winds as well
The Colbert really is just wrapped up
towards the north here and no sign at
the moment of it breaking through
although i'll show you were some tempura
chants and moments which are right quite
interesting but as I say stormy week
ahead it's going to be wednesday we're
focusing on for Gustav perhaps above 70
or even 80 miles an hour across western
coasts lighter winds towards these
gusting just gusting up to 50 miles now
there I think kept Friday want ? over it
looked as if it was going to be the
strongest winds but the latest run from
the GFS trying to tone them down a
little bit and other models trying to
ease back a little bit on Fridays wins
but I'm not convinced so we need to
watch that one too and then into next
week well windy as well this is the
ECMWF for Christmas Eve into a Christmas
morning and notice there look that deep
low that's there towards the west of
Scotland what's a given us 95 2948 944
940 about 936 millibars if that came
true that's an exceptionally deep low to
be that close to the British Isles it's
not unusual to get 936 in the Atlantic
at this time here but to be that close
to the British Isles unusual weld is it
sort of once every five years or so with
guesting made that that's when we see
that but really strong winds coming
through the country the ensemble can't
pick out so much detail because it's
smooth several runs but you said
what speak out from this is that the gfs
is the sort of the gfs this jet stream
is still there screaming through the
country bringing the potential for very
strong winds the Canadian not so stormy
what that is trying to do is to build a
ridge more out towards the east now this
one can't quite see but we need to watch
the Canadian occasion it can spring a
surprise it's building that reach out
towards the east I can see the reasoning
for it but I've got to be honest that
jet across the Atlantic looks to strong
to allow this to happen and the gfs
ensemble look just coming in from the
West we've got low pressure up towards
the north and the Northwest isobars
close together strong winds jet stream
over the top of us so it says hey it's
going to be windy right through
Christmas and the GFS operational
looking like this from this morning this
is the chart for Christmas Day and it
clears out the really strong winds off
towards the east during the course
Christmas Day and leaves us with this
Westar southwesterly flow one of them
particularly mild we're probably looking
about sixes in the South around four
across Scotland bit of snow across the
hills of Scotland but generally we're
looking at sunshine and showers some
rain across the east and the sound of
course a long way to go and trying to
pin down the details pretty tricky and
what is interesting from this run of the
GFS vote is that they look this is the
ridge out towards the East which is what
of course the GM was doing the Canadian
as well so we've just got to watch this
one and the CFS he's also trying to hint
at a change taking place now I think
it's probably going to stay unsettled
through into the beginning of the new
year but a big temperature decrease look
showing on the CFS here from around
about the sixth of January I'm wondering
if it's more around the 10th to the 15
that we see a temperature drop but this
would make sense that we'd see these
really strong winds in for several weeks
and the relatively mild temperatures
here but then we see this drop off
taking place as I so I think it's more
around the 10th 15th that sort of period
that would see cooler cooling down
taking place but you see here how
temperatures fall off from maximums of
sort of 12s over the next few days down
to maximum have ones and twos that's not
exceptionally cold it's just normal
winter cold weather but interesting that
the size of their from the CFS is trying
to do this and why is it well
if we look at the weekly chance from the
CFS you see here week one jet stream
screaming through us as we've just seen
that's what brings the the really
unsettled weather through the through
the country and then if we if we just
scan down here and take a look at week
to look jet stream is there again taking
us up to the end of the year the area of
low pressure sinks its way a little bit
for the south but then weeks three which
is from the 30th through to the fifth of
January look here's our low center of
height up towards the north building
rich here building rich here and a
building ridge out towards the east so
effectively what it does is it's trying
to cut off this low and then into week
four it has cut off the low it sent it
down into central parts of Europe hear
it then build high pressure out towards
the east and out towards the west and it
tries to bring in more of a North East
elite flow which would be cooler and
present the possibility of some wintry
conditions I'm not going to say
widespread snow but the possibility of
some wintry conditions into that middle
part of January whether the I suppose
you would call it the second third of
January now CFS is the CFS he just does
jump around all over the place but at
times it makes logical decisions and
this seems to be logical it seems to be
a progression that the weather could
take so there may be some hints of some
cold weather coming through of course
we'll watch that over the coming days
keep you updated and we'll look for
signs of that as well building through
the numerical models over the coming
days but for that thanks for watching
whether web net please do tell your
friends about us the more visitors we
get to the size that means the more
people using the site and it means it
generates more revenue which means that
we kept free of charge so once again
thanks for watching and keep the
sunshine e by finna